Draft of Lake Jupyter Notebook demos in Docker (#150)
Teradata/quickstarts: modules/ROOT/pages/vantagecloud-lake-demo-jupyter-docker.adoc

= Run VantageCloud Lake Demos from a Jupyter notebook in Docker
:experimental:
:page-author: Vidhan Bhonsle
:page-email: vidhan.bhonsle@teradata.com
:page-revdate: January 10th, 2024
:description: Run Teradata VantageCloud Lake Demos from Jupyter in a Docker
:keywords: data warehouses, compute storage separation, teradata, vantage, cloud data platform, business intelligence, enterprise analytics, jupyter, teradatasql, ipython-sql, docker, container, vantagecloud, vantagecloud lake, lake

== Overview
In this how-to we will go through the steps for connecting to TeradataCloud Lake and run demos from a Jupyter notebook in Docker. 

== Prerequisites
* https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/[Docker Desktop] installed
* (Optional) https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git[Git] installed
** Required to download git repo from https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos.git. You can also download the repo as a .zip if you don't have Git installed locally.
* A Teradata VantageCloud Lake account login
** Organization URL and login details from Teradata welcome letter

> * (Optional) IDE of your choice

Reviewer: Would it not make sense to move the optional items to the end of the list?

Author: Moved optional items to the end.

== Create VantageCloud Lake environment
Follow the instructions from the https://quickstarts.teradata.com/getting-started-with-vantagecloud-lake.html[VantageCloud Lake getting started] to create your own environment. +

> Once created, go to *SETTINGS* tab and provide your IP address range in CIDR format (for example, 192.168.2.0/24 specifies all IP addresses in the range: 192.168.2.0 to 192.168.2.255) to access the environment.

Reviewer: Can we assume that people will know what CIDR is? Also, since this is about docker, they will likely run it on their local. Will they know how to identify their external IP address as seen by the Lake infrastructure? Should we not help them with these tasks at least by linking to some websites that explain CIDR and help identify the public IP address?

image::lake_ip_addresses.png[IP whitelisting,align="center",width=50%]

Your environment card should show *Public internet* access now.

image::lake_public_internet_cv.png[Public internet card view,align="center",width=50%]

From *OVERVIEW* tab, copy:

* Public IP and
* Open Analytics Endpoint

These values are required to access VantageCloud Lake from outside.

image::lake_overview_page.png[Environment Overview page,align="center",width=75%]

== Clone Lake demo repository
Clone VantageCloud Lake Demo repository in your local machine:

> [source, bash, id="jupyter_first_run", role="content-editable emits-gtm-events"]

Reviewer: We usually emit GTM events only for events that mark a conversion. While we can trigger more event, we should have a reason to do it. I recommend we agree on a single event that marks a conversion and assign it `emits-gtm-events` role and remove it from other places.

Author: Understood. Thank you.

----
git clone https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos.git

> ----

Reviewer: Since we made the git dependency optional, we need to provide alternate instructions for users who did not install git. Alternatively, make git a hard requirement.

Author: For consistency, made Git a hard requirement.

The repository contains different files and folders, the important ones are:

* Jupyter Notebooks
** https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/0_Demo_Environment_Setup.ipynb[0_Demo_Environment_Setup.ipynb]
** https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/1_Load_Base_Demo_Data.ipynb[1_Load_Base_Demo_Data.ipynb]
** https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/Data_Engineering_Exploration.ipynb[Data_Engineering_Exploration.ipynb]
** https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/Data_Science_OAF.ipynb[Data_Science_OAF.ipynb]
** https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/Demo_Admin.ipynb[Demo_Admin.ipynb]
* https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/vars.json[vars.json file]

== Edit vars.json file

> To connect Jupyter notebooks with VantageCloud Lake, you need to edit "vars.json" file and provide:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect Jupyter notebooks to VantageCloud Lake, you need to edit "vars.json" file and provide:
```

[cols="1,1"]
|====
| *Variable* | *Value*

| *"host"* 
| Public IP value from *OVERVIEW* section (see above)

| *"UES_URI"* 
| Open Analytics Endpoint value from *OVERVIEW* section (see above)

| *"bucket"* 
| S3 bucket name +

>   *If you do not have it, reach out to Teradata team.

Reviewer: There is an email thread where we are taking about moving this data to a public bucket. Let's discuss in the standup today. how to sequence this.

| *"access_key"* 
| S3 access key +
  *If you do not have it, reach out to Teradata team.

| *"access_key"* 
| S3 secret +
  *If you do not have it, reach out to Teradata team.

|====

Leave rest of the variable values untouched in JSON file.

== Mount files within Docker

> https://hub.docker.com/r/teradata/jupyterlab-extensions[Jupyter extension] for Docker is required to run Demos. The extension bundles the Teradata SQL kernel, Teradata Python and R libraries and drivers and Teradata extensions for Jupyter to make you productive while interacting with Teradata database.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://hub.docker.com/r/teradata/jupyterlab-extensions[Teradata Jupyter Extensions] for Docker are required to run demos. The extensions provide the SQL ipython kernel, utilities to manage connections to Teradata, and the database object explorer to make you productive while interacting with the Teradata database.  
```
